Now that you are ready to use PyAnalySeries, an important
point is how to work with your data, in other
words, how to import series.
Many scientists working with field or instrumental data rely on
spreadsheet formats.
For this reason, PyAnalySeries allows you to directly copy and
paste data from your spreadsheet into the import window.
Let’s look at this in more detail.
Let’s open a new worksheet to host our data.
Rename the file if needed.
Data can be imported in X, Y format, or with
multiple series such as X, Y1, Y2, Y3.
From your spreadsheet, select the columns and press Control C
Then, in the import window available from the Create menu
press Control V.
There is no need to clear the import window; simply
paste your data directly into it.
Columns can also be reorganized once pasted.
If the columns are not ordered as X, Y1, Y2
you can rearrange them as needed.
Click and hold the column title, then drag it to
the desired position.
It is also possible to import a set of pointers
in X, Y format.
Missing Y values can be preserved, allowing you to keep
the data exactly as it was originally produced.
Let’s now examine the effect of this checkbox on the
imported series.
Import is independent of the decimal separator, whether comma or
dot.
Values are internally standardized using the dot.
Column titles can include LaTeX-style characters, which will be correctly
rendered in the plots.
You may also want to reorganize items internally.
Just drag them to the desired order.
Do not forget to save your worksheet with your imported
data with a Ctrl S.